I use subagents really often when I am analysing some of the existing features or what I'm splitting the implementation some agents as the great way to optimise your context you can manually control how to delegate the assignments to your sub agent or it can be done automatically by claude just ask him spawning sub agent is simple. It is about asking or prompting Claude to spawn an agent of a specific type. For example, spawn me Haiku agents to analyse all of the tasks in this directory and list all of the Test cases in parallel run Sonnet agent to see all of the functions we have in this module and list all of them and write a short summary of what they do and then based on those two outputs run opus to implement mess tests.

By doing it we are isolating the context so that our sonnet is focus on analysing the code our haiku as focused on the task so that the context is sharper it is focused and then our office is getting only what it needs. It doesn't need to read all of the test files and all of the future functions. It only gets a summary and implement what it's needed.

I am very aggressive with Refactoring. Claude code gives me possibilities that I never had before now I have an ability to run multiple agents to reflect my code entire code base. We will cover three topics project using swarm of agents, mass refracturing, and orchestration of different agents.

When it comes to a analysis of the project, you might want to ask Claude to analyze your code, but if this code base is relatively big, doesn’t fit into the context window a precision and accuracy, which is instead the simple way would be asking Claude to spawn multiple agents to go through each are interested in and find needed information for example, if we want to ref factor every end point and migrate from one validation library to another one, you might want to ask Claude to spawn 10 agents that will split the endpoints between them and go through each and point and collect the summary and what needs to be done to make the refactoring. Before you start ref factoring, you want to understand what is your final destination for this reason you might use your main agent to factor a single and point or do it by your hand. You need to build a first near perfect example it will be used as the replication reference. is really strong when replicating the known pattern for this reason you are focusing on a single end point and then you will use a swarm of agents to end points. It is very important to mention that with or without AI requires testing automated testing can give you a confidence that you didn’t box without automation always have a chance of missing some of the details when your point is ref factored by you or by Claude you can then ask Claude to create a migration plan and offload all of the learnings that obtained during the then in the next session, you are asking Claude to find all of the ant points using the sub agents, I would recommend using haiku because they are fast and they are cheap. Then getting the list of all of the ant points. After that you ask Claude to split the ant points between multiple agents and you can specify that you want band you and points per agent and execute the of all of them. If the change is simple, you don’t need to use can simply go with sonnet maybe even haiku but if the change is complex, then you should go when using ops for such indicates that it is something more complex and maybe you want to get into a bit more granular approach when you ref factor module by module to verify that everything works correctly

Vanna making a bakery factoring after swarm analysis I ask orchestrate to split the work into chunks. I evaluate how big the chunk is to understand how I should delegate the work then I use this plan written in file to actually run batches one by one or sometimes in parallel.

The next orchestration technique managing multiple specialized I would recommend starting review engineer for example, your main agent is writing the code and then it spawns another agent that will review the code changes. It is important because the new a fresh context. imagine you are developing a feature for 10 hours straight. What is the chance that you will find a your code after coding for 10 hours the same with AI? Your main agent has a biased context already so it will benefit from the review from the agent with clean context, review agent can be found easily without creating specialized agent. You can just ask run a sub agents to review the code. The next step would be creating this specialized backend code reviewer you can specify what type of to for example looking for database performance issues or issues then you can also create the development agent, so it will look like the main agent is executing the planning and analysis with you, but when it comes to the execution, it delegates the work and then to the code reviewer by doing this we are splitting the context can engineer starts with a clean context with the detailed instructions from the main agent. The third type of agent I would recommend to add engineer you have a choice total freedom to write before the execution of after execution, but I was strongly recommend creating tasks because they serve as a feedback and the check for the code that agent wrote just imagine this workflow your development agent is creating the feature engineer based on the plan and the behaviors who described creating a the main agent is running the test to see if the implementation is according to the when Test doesn’t pass or previous existing are indicates that we just introduced the regression issue it means that main agent receives the feedback right away and it can start fixing the issue by doing that you are reducing the manual review time and ping-pong through the chat. It is very important not to overcomplicate your flow. You should start simple. Start with the main agent then add another one. Make sure they work together in the combination then add another one make it with see what works for you. Then you will get to the workflow that you like that matches your daily work. I can see that some engineers are creating 10 different agents and trying to orchestrate them without any needs, I am not against the existing you can use, but I really love the basics. I really love having a full flexibility and control over my agents and my workflow. It is not simple. It is not difficult to and the possibilities are endless so we spoke about analysis using a swarm of agents we spoke about mass refracturing using a swarm of agents, and we spoke about orchestration of specialized agents.
